.Dd March 27, 2022
.Dt LIBPNU 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm libpnu
.Nd Common utility functions for the PNU project
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Em import libpnu
.Pp
.Fo libpnu.initialize_debugging
.Fa "String program_name"
.Fc
.Fo libpnu.handle_interrupt_signals
.Fa "Function handler_function"
.Fc
.Ft String
.Fo libpnu.get_home_directory
.Fc
.Ft List
.Fo libpnu.locate_directory
.Fa "String directory"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn initialize_debugging
function sets up the Python logging module with a syslog style kind of console log using
.Fa program_name
as the program name.
By default, the logging level is set at WARNING or more, but can be lowered by calling
.Fn logging.disable ,
for example with the logging.NOTSET parameter to get DEBUG or more logging level.
.Pp
The
.Fn handle_interrupt_signals
function calls the specified
.Fa handler_function
to process the SIGINT and SIGPIPE signals,
usually to avoid an ugly trace dump to the console
in case of interrupt (Control-C pressed or broken pipe).
.Pp
The
.Fn get_home_directory
function returns the location of the user's home directory in a string
depending on the operating system used (Unix, Windows).
.Pp
The
.Fn locate_directory
function searches the specified
.Fa directory
in a variety of possible other directories,
depending on the operating system used (Unix, Windows)
and the fact that a package can be user or system installed.
It is intended to be used when the directory can't be directly found,
and returns a list of paths where the directory searched has been found.
.Pp
For example, if the argument is
.Pa "/usr/local/etc/man.d" ,
we'll search for "usr/local/etc/man.d", "local/etc/man.d", "etc/man.d" (more likely) and "man.d"
in a list of user's local Python package directories
("$HOME/.local" on Unix, "$APPDATA/python", "$HOMEPATH/appdata/roaming/python", "$USERPROFILE/appdata/roaming/python" on Windows)
and system wide Python package base directories (given by
.Em sys.base_prefix :
"/usr/local" on Unix, "C:/Program Files/Python3x" on Windows).
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables can be used to identify the user identity and home directory.
.Pp
On Unix:
.Ev HOME ,
.Ev LOGNAME ,
.Ev USER ,
.Ev LNAME
and
.Ev USERNAME .
.Pp
On Windows:
.Ev APPDATA ,
.Ev HOME ,
.Ev HOMEPATH
and
.Ev USERPROFILE .
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
library is not a standard UNIX one.
.Pp
It tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh PORTABILITY
To be tested under Windows.
.Sh HISTORY
This library was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU [PNU project]
.Sh LICENSE
It is available under the 3-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hubert Tournier
